doc/usage.rst, before:

Usage
-----

Every matrix in the collection is represented by a string
``"matrix_name"``, for example, the Cauchy matrix is represented by
``"cauchy"`` and the Hilbert matrix is represented by ``"hilb"``.

The matrix groups are noted as symbols. 
For example, the class of the symmetric
matrices is symbolized by ``:symmetric``.

.. function:: mdinfo()

  Return a list of all the matrices in the collection::

    julia> mdinfo()

    Matrices:
     1) baart            2) binomial         3) blur             4) cauchy        
     5) chebspec         6) chow             7) circul           8) clement       
     9) companion       10) deriv2          11) dingdong        12) fiedler       
     13) forsythe        14) foxgood         15) frank           16) golub         
     17) gravity         18) grcar           19) hadamard        20) hankel        
     21) heat            22) hilb            23) invhilb         24) invol         
     25) kahan           26) kms             27) lehmer          28) lotkin        
     29) magic           30) minij           31) moler           32) neumann       
     33) oscillate       34) parter          35) pascal          36) pei           
     37) phillips        38) poisson         39) prolate         40) randcorr      
     41) rando           42) randsvd         43) rohess          44) rosser        
     45) sampling        46) shaw            47) spikes          48) toeplitz      
     49) tridiag         50) triw            51) ursell          52) vand          
     53) wathen          54) wilkinson       55) wing          
    Groups:
     all           data          eigen        illcond    
     inverse       posdef       random        regprob     
     sparse        symmetric 

.. function:: matrixdepot(matrix_name, p1, p2, ...)

  Return a matrix specified by the query string ``matrix_name``.
  The string must be a matrix name or a query pattern which matches exactly one matrix.
  ``p1, p2, ...`` are input parameters depending on ``matrix_name``.
  For example::

    julia> matrixdepot("hilb", 5, 4)
    5x4 Array{Float64,2}:
    1.0       0.5       0.333333  0.25    
    0.5       0.333333  0.25      0.2     
    0.333333  0.25      0.2       0.166667
    0.25      0.2       0.166667  0.142857
    0.2       0.166667  0.142857  0.125  

.. function:: mdinfo(matrix_name)

  Return the documentation of ``matrix_name``, including input options,
  groups and reference. For example::

   julia> mdinfo("moler")
      Moler Matrix
     ≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡

   The Moler matrix is a symmetric positive definite matrix. It has one small
   eigenvalue.

   Input options:

     •  [type,] dim, alpha: dim is the dimension of the matrix, alpha is a
       scalar;

     •  [type,] dim: alpha = -1.

   Groups: ["inverse", "ill-cond", "symmetric", "pos-def"]

   References: 

   J.C. Nash, Compact Numerical Methods for Computers: Linear Algebra and
   Function Minimisation, second edition, Adam Hilger, Bristol, 1990 
   (Appendix 1).


.. function:: mdlist(group_name)

  Return a list of matrices which belong to group ``group_name`` (symbol) as an array.
  For example::

    julia> mdlist(:posdef)
    11-element Array{ASCIIString,1}:
    "hilb"   
    "cauchy" 
    "circul" 
    "invhilb"
    "moler"  
    "pascal" 
    "pei"    
    "minij"  
    "tridiag"
    "lehmer" 
    "poisson"

.. function:: listnames(group1 & group2 & ...)

  Return a iformatted list of matrices which belong to ``group1`` and ``group2``, etc. 
  For example::

  julia> listnames(:symmetric & :inverse & :illcond & :posdef)
  list(8)
  ––––––– –––– ––––––– ––– ––––– –––––– ––– –––––––
  cauchy  hilb invhilb kms moler pascal pei tridiag

.. function:: mdlist({builtin\user\sp\mm}(num))

   Access matrix by number. For example::
     
     julia> mdlist(builtin(3))
     "chebspec"

.. function:: mdlist(builtin(num1:num2, ...))

   Access matrix by range and combinations. For example::
    julia> mdlist(builtin(1:4, 6, 10:15))
    11-element Array{String,1}:
     "baart"   
     "binomial"
     "blur"    
     "cauchy"  
     "chow"    
     "deriv2"  
     "dingdong"
     "erdrey"  
     "fiedler" 
     "forsythe"
     "foxgood"

We can define our own groups using the macro ``@addgroup`` and
remove a defined group using ``@rmgroup``.

.. function:: @addgroup group_name = ["matrix1", "matrix2", "matrix3"]

   Create a new group ``"group_name"`` such that it has members
   ``"matrix1"``, ``"matrix2"`` and ``"matrix3"``.

.. function:: @rmgroup group_name
  
   Delete a created group ``group_name``.

Commit message:

Krc/remove deprecated user defs (#95)
* Remove deprecated user defined functions

* remove obsolete remote access / features

* removed unused packages from Project

* added tests for alternative names

* code coverage - call update

* `mm` and `sp` to access alternative collection

* added `charfun` - test coverage

doc/usage.rst, after:

Usage
-----

Every matrix in the collection is represented by a string
``"matrix_name"``, for example, the Cauchy matrix is represented by
``"cauchy"`` and the Hilbert matrix is represented by ``"hilb"``.

The matrix groups are noted as symbols. 
For example, the class of the symmetric
matrices is symbolized by ``:symmetric``.

.. function:: mdinfo()

  Return a list of all the matrices in the collection::

    julia> mdinfo()

    Matrices:
     1) baart            2) binomial         3) blur             4) cauchy        
     5) chebspec         6) chow             7) circul           8) clement       
     9) companion       10) deriv2          11) dingdong        12) fiedler       
     13) forsythe        14) foxgood         15) frank           16) golub         
     17) gravity         18) grcar           19) hadamard        20) hankel        
     21) heat            22) hilb            23) invhilb         24) invol         
     25) kahan           26) kms             27) lehmer          28) lotkin        
     29) magic           30) minij           31) moler           32) neumann       
     33) oscillate       34) parter          35) pascal          36) pei           
     37) phillips        38) poisson         39) prolate         40) randcorr      
     41) rando           42) randsvd         43) rohess          44) rosser        
     45) sampling        46) shaw            47) spikes          48) toeplitz      
     49) tridiag         50) triw            51) ursell          52) vand          
     53) wathen          54) wilkinson       55) wing          
    Groups:
     all           data          eigen        illcond    
     inverse       posdef       random        regprob     
     sparse        symmetric 

.. function:: matrixdepot(matrix_name, p1, p2, ...)

  Return a matrix specified by the query string ``matrix_name``.
  The string must be a matrix name or a query pattern which matches exactly one matrix.
  ``p1, p2, ...`` are input parameters depending on ``matrix_name``.
  For example::

    julia> matrixdepot("hilb", 5, 4)
    5x4 Array{Float64,2}:
    1.0       0.5       0.333333  0.25    
    0.5       0.333333  0.25      0.2     
    0.333333  0.25      0.2       0.166667
    0.25      0.2       0.166667  0.142857
    0.2       0.166667  0.142857  0.125  

.. function:: mdinfo(matrix_name)

  Return the documentation of ``matrix_name``, including input options,
  groups and reference. For example::

   julia> mdinfo("moler")
      Moler Matrix
     ≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡≡

   The Moler matrix is a symmetric positive definite matrix. It has one small
   eigenvalue.

   Input options:

     •  [type,] dim, alpha: dim is the dimension of the matrix, alpha is a
       scalar;

     •  [type,] dim: alpha = -1.

   Groups: ["inverse", "ill-cond", "symmetric", "pos-def"]

   References: 

   J.C. Nash, Compact Numerical Methods for Computers: Linear Algebra and
   Function Minimisation, second edition, Adam Hilger, Bristol, 1990 
   (Appendix 1).


.. function:: mdlist(group_name)

  Return a list of matrices which belong to group ``group_name`` (symbol) as an array.
  For example::

    julia> mdlist(:posdef)
    11-element Array{ASCIIString,1}:
    "hilb"   
    "cauchy" 
    "circul" 
    "invhilb"
    "moler"  
    "pascal" 
    "pei"    
    "minij"  
    "tridiag"
    "lehmer" 
    "poisson"

.. function:: listnames(group1 & group2 & ...)

  Return a iformatted list of matrices which belong to ``group1`` and ``group2``, etc. 
  For example::

  julia> listnames(:symmetric & :inverse & :illcond & :posdef)
  list(8)
  ––––––– –––– ––––––– ––– ––––– –––––– ––– –––––––
  cauchy  hilb invhilb kms moler pascal pei tridiag

.. function:: mdlist({builtin\user\sp\mm}(num))

   Access matrix by number. For example::
     
     julia> mdlist(builtin(3))
     "chebspec"

.. function:: mdlist(builtin(num1:num2, ...))

   Access matrix by range and combinations. For example::
    julia> mdlist(builtin(1:4, 6, 10:15))
    11-element Array{String,1}:
     "baart"   
     "binomial"
     "blur"    
     "cauchy"  
     "chow"    
     "deriv2"  
     "dingdong"
     "erdrey"  
     "fiedler" 
     "forsythe"
     "foxgood"

We can define our own groups using the function ``setgroup!`` and
remove a defined group with ``deletegroup!``.

User definied groups may use arbitrary patterns to declare subsets of all available matrices,
and are not restricted to simple lists of alternative names.
